Add `dotnetup` Channel Intent Docs (#55390)
dotnet/sdk: documentation/general/dotnetup/dotnetup-support-policy.md

# `dotnetup` Support Policy

## Overview

`dotnetup` refers exclusively to the standalone, self-contained tool for developers that helps them manage and acquire .NET.

Looking for the support policy for another part of the .NET platform? See the [.NET Support Policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy) page.

Every Microsoft product has a lifecycle. The lifecycle begins when a product is released and ends when it's no longer supported. Knowing key dates in this lifecycle helps you make informed decisions about when to upgrade or make other changes to your software. This product is governed by [Microsoft's Modern Lifecycle Policy.](https://learn.microsoft.com/lifecycle/policies/modern)

>  Unlike the .NET SDK, will release as a tip only product, meaning that *only the latest version* of `dotnetup` will remain in support at any given time. This may change as the product matures, and if it becomes more engrained into the .NET ecosystem. To be clear `dotnetup` is a standalone tool isolated outside of the .NET SDK space.

Author: ```suggestion
 Unlike the .NET SDK, `dotnetup` will release as a tip only product, meaning that *only the latest version* of `dotnetup` will remain in support at any given time. This may change as the product matures, and if it becomes more engrained into the .NET ecosystem. To be clear `dotnetup` is a standalone tool isolated outside of the .NET SDK space.
```

# `dotnetup` `daily`, `preview`, and `stable` Version Definitions

## Overview

`dotnetup` refers exclusively to the standalone, self-contained tool for developers that helps them manage and acquire .NET.
`dotnetup` is a fast-moving CLI that is still changing and evolving.

Looking for the support policy for the .NET Platform? See the [.NET Support Policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy) page.
`dotnetup`'s official support policy document is still underway; here, we aim to communicate version intent to allow users to pick which version of `dotnetup` to use.

> Unlike the .NET SDK, `dotnetup` is a tip-only product. Only the most recently published `stable` version of `dotnetup` is supported. When a new `stable` version is published, it immediately supersedes the previous `stable` version. `daily` and `preview` versions are not supported. This policy may change as the product matures or when an official support policy page supersedes this document.

Reviewer: Possible rewrite without using the term "supported":

```suggestion
Unlike the .NET SDK, `dotnetup` is a tip-only product. Fixes and updates are only provided for the latest `stable` version.  When a new `stable` version is published, it immediately supersedes the previous `stable` version. `daily` and `preview` versions may recieve updates but have a lower quality bar and are not recommended for use in production. This policy may change as the product matures or when an official support policy page supersedes this document.
```

Author: Aha, I like it 😉

Multiple `daily` builds may be published in one day. Only the most recent `daily` build is intended for dogfooding; older `daily` builds are not maintained.

#### Version Intent

The `daily` version of `dotnetup` does not have any guarantees. Features may be added, changed, or removed without notice. Breaking changes may be added without documentation or notice. We may implement backward compatibility for breaking changes even in `daily` builds; however, this is not an official policy and is at our discretion depending upon the feature and expected risk.

The `main` branch of the .NET SDK will also be a first party consumer of `dotnetup` `daily` builds.

If the `daily` build of `dotnetup` faces an issue, we do not guarantee any SLA or fix timeline.

### `Preview` Channel Versions

At our discretion, `daily` builds may be promoted to `preview` versions. We will closely monitor telemetry for potential bugs or regressions added between the `preview` and `daily` build before promoting a `daily` to a `preview` build. `preview` versions are not officially supported but they are offered for public testing ahead of a promotion to a `stable` release.

> The first `preview` version of `dotnetup` is targeted for release in `August 2026`.

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention timelines in this document.

Author: I'll remove the timelines. Still want to talk about them though!

`preview` versions may be built off the top of `preview` or `lts/sts` versions of .NET.

`preview` versions may contain breaking changes without notice. No service-level agreement or fix timeline applies to a `preview` version. Regardless, we aim to publish breaking change notices for expected high-impact changes.
.NET teams may use `preview` versions in their own build infrastructure.

### `Stable` Channel Versions

> Only the most recently published `stable` version of `dotnetup` is supported. Supported in this case means that `stable` versions receive security and bug fixes as patch versions. `daily` versions will eventually catch up with features added in `preview` versions.

Reviewer: This could maybe be reworded to not use the "supported" term, but I think this is also a place where it's probably fine to leave as is.

> `daily` versions will eventually catch up with features added in `preview` versions.

This doesn't make sense to me if we're shipping out of a single branch.  Every build would first be a daily build, then we'd choose which builds to promote to `preview` and then `stable`.

Author: That's what I was hoping to convey. The wording here should probably be adjusted.

> The `stable` version of `dotnetup` will release in `November 2026` aligning around the .NET 11 timeframe.

Reviewer: Again, I'd leave the timeline out of this doc.

#### End of support

End of support refers to the date when Microsoft no longer provides fixes, updates, or online technical assistance for a product version.

When a new `stable` version of `dotnetup` is published, all previous versions immediately reach end of support.

At this time, historical `stable` versions of `dotnetup` will remain available for download as official [dotnet releases](https://builds.dotnet.microsoft.com/dotnet/release-metadata/releases-index.json) despite their lack of official support, much like historical .NET versions are available today.

PSAs and CVEs are planned to be announced under the [same platform (dotnet release notes)](https://github.com/dotnet/core) used for dotnet releases today, following a similar convention. However, discussions and release tags will exist on the [.NET SDK repository](https://github.com/dotnet/sdk).

### FAQ

**How can I update to the latest `dotnetup` version?**

> Once `stable` releases are available, follow the [download instructions](README.md#download-dotnetup) and select the `stable` build quality. Pass `--quality stable` to `get-dotnetup.sh` or `-Quality stable` to `get-dotnetup.ps1`. Running either script without this option currently installs a `daily` build, which is available today but not supported.

Reviewer: We haven't implemented this yet, have we?  I'm not sure we need to include this in the document especially when it's not yet implemented.  By the time we go stable, we probably want dotnetup to be able to update itself.

Author: Ok to remove this! And agreed.
